Romeo and Juliet Summary

1.  The play begins in Verona, Italy where two noble families, the Montagues and Capulets, have an ongoing feud. Romeo Montague and his friends sneak into a Capulet party where Romeo meets and falls in love with Juliet Capulet. They kiss at the end of the party unaware that they are from rival families.
2.  After the party, Romeo sneaks into the Capulet orchard below Juliet's bedroom and overhears Juliet speaking from her window above, professing her love for Romeo. They exchange vows of love not realizing their identities. Romeo then reveals himself which surprises Juliet.
3.  The next day, Romeo meets with Friar Laurence to discuss his sudden marriage to Juliet. Friar Laurence agrees to marry them in hopes it will end the feud between their families. Romeo and Juliet are secretly married by Friar Laurence with a nurse as witness.
4.  Meanwhile, Juliet's cousin Tybalt confronts Romeo and challenges him to a duel for sneaking into the Capulet party. Romeo refuses to fight since they are now relatives by marriage. Mercutio fights Tybalt instead and is killed. In rage, Romeo kills Tybalt and is banished from Verona by the Prince.
5.  Friar Laurence informs Juliet of Romeo's banishment. They spend her wedding night together before he leaves for Mantua. Juliet's parents, unaware she is married, arrange for Juliet to marry Count Paris. Juliet seeks Friar Laurence's help to get out of the arranged marriage.
6.  Friar Laurence devises a plan and gives Juliet a potion to fake her own death. The plan is for Romeo to come rescue her from the tomb after she wakes up. Friar Laurence sends a letter to Romeo in Mantua explaining the plan but the letter does not reach Romeo.
7.  Juliet drinks the potion and her family discovers her appearing dead and makes funeral arrangements. Romeo hears from his servant Balthasar that Juliet is dead, so he buys poison and goes to her tomb to kill himself.
8.  Friar Laurence arrives at the tomb too late and discovers Romeo's dead body. Juliet then wakes up and finds Romeo dead. Friar Laurence hears people approaching and flees. Juliet takes Romeo's dagger and kills herself.
9.  The feuding families and the Prince arrive and piece together the tragic events from Friar Laurence and the nurse. They agree to end their feud seeing the damage it has caused.
10.  Friar Laurence summarizes that the secret marriage led to Romeo killing Tybalt which led to Romeo's banishment and the miscommunication about the plan caused the timing of the suicides. He laments the tragic end of two young lives and the end of the families' feud that came too late.
