Chapter 1

About a hundred miles west of San Francisco, in the Pacific Ocean, Ensign William Walters was the officer in charge of the Operations Room on a US Navy Destroyer.  This evening before Sunset, the weather outside was good, with clear skies and three foot waves.  The Ops Room, also known as the Combat Information Center, was staffed by a dozen sailors studying glowing screens.  Workstations were active for surface radar, sonar, aircraft radar, satellite links, torpedoes, and missile launchers.  

If necessary, Ensign Walters could, within 60 seconds, be talking the Fleet Commander in Hawaii, or Naval Warfare Center in the Pentagon.  But this evening is not yet that demanding.  A couple of F-35 Lightnings had launched on a training flight from an aircraft carrier not far from San Diego.  As the two jets patrol up the coast of California, they entered the Destroyer’s defense box, a designated area covering ten thousand square miles of ocean.

As Walters sat in an elevated chair surveying the room, he reminisced about the last few years.  As a recent graduate of the Naval Academy in Annapolis, he chose duty on a destroyer instead of being on a submarine or going to flight school.  But graduating was no easy task.  Walters struggled with his grades during all four years of college.  But that was all totally behind him now.

Walters takes a phone call from the ship’s bridge and reports that all is well.  Using a handheld tablet device, he taps out a message to his counterpart in another ship, 200 miles away.  Then he sips coffee and stares blankly at a big map on the wall.

“Ensign, look at this!” the radarman shouted, interrupting Walters dreamy state.  

Walters took a few steps to the screen and replied in a harsh tone, “What is that?  For Chrissake, it’s going five thousand miles an hour.” 

“I surely don’t know,” the radarman replied, and continued, “Can’t be a plane.  Nothing goes that fast.  Can’t be junk falling from space because the speed is steady. And the altitude is way too low for it to be a missile from China or Korea.”  

The normal library-like quiet of the Ops Room was escalating to a buzz. The lead pilot of the F-35’s called in,  “Navy 106 requesting permission for pursuit.  Bogey four-zero miles northwest of our position.”  

Both jets had also detected the intruder heading eastbound over the ocean and soon to cross the coast near Santa Barbara. 

Walters approved the jets to go supersonic over populated areas.  At the same time he summoned the ship’s captain and other officers, down to the Ops Room.  The sonic booms over the California coastal towns triggered thousands of civilian calls to 911.  


Chapter 2

The alien vessel was about the size of a city bus.  As it entered the Earth’s atmosphere it triggered numerous military alarms.  Inside were four aliens.  If they were described using human roles and labels, they would be the Commander, the Pilot, the Science Officer and the Chief Mate.  

Arfan is the captain of what humans would call the “space ship”.  That term, however, is relatively weak, considering the ability of the ship to traverse interstellar light-year distances in the equivalent of earth-days.

A human would describe Arfan as small creature.  He stands only about four feet tall, with large head with intense dark eyes.  His body is covered in in a fine short-hair fur. No clothing. The brown fur has dramatic long black stripes, like a jungle animal. Two arms and two legs make him seem vaguely human.  His three shipmates are physically similar, but the female has fewer and less contrasting stripes.  The atmosphere in their ship has oxygen, like Earth’s atmosphere.

The four of them are alone in this part of the Galaxy, not counting of course, the billions of humans on the Earth.  Their mission is to get some foreign life forms, and bring those back to their home planet.  They are essentially hired contractors of a big zoo that is collecting galactic life forms.  

Some of the crew is ex-military.  Arfan, the Commander, is an affable but intense creature, and formerly held a rank which would be equivalent to Admiral in the US Navy or General in the US Air Force. However his fleet of ships lost a big battle against a hostile force.  As a result, he was busted down to a lower rank and forced to retire from the military. Now, he found work as a kind of mercenary or armed poacher. 

Bano the pilot, another male of the same species as Arfan, always aspired to be in the military.  But he failed the psychological indoctrination due to his emotional nature.  He was happy to just be the ship’s driver, instead of some other career on his home planet.

Arfan and Bano studied the 3-D displays depicting everything around their ship for hundreds of miles.  The two Navy jets were shown following fast, but not fast enough to catch the ship, at this point.  Arfan was concerned about local interference with his plan to grab some human creatures.  He had no idea about the weapons or capabilities of the two jets, or what he would encounter on the ground.

Bano said (in his native language) “We can take out those guys out with one shot.  Just give me the order!”  

Arfan was less enthused about shooting and replied, “We could do that.  But then, maybe other vessels would be launched to come after us. Perhaps they have some kind of defensive system.  Maybe they have ground based weapons. We don’t know.  It’s better to not provoke them if we don’t need to. Hold your fire for now and stay on plan.”

The plan was based on a survey performed by a small drone spacecraft sent to Earth in the weeks before.  First, it determined that Earth’s atmosphere was similar to its home planet.  Then, it photographed the Earth’s surface extensively.  Onboard software looked for patterns that could be useful.  One such pattern was found at a park in the town of Simi Valley, just Northwest of Los Angeles.  

Every evening at about sundown, it seemed, humans would gather for an outdoor event.  The software assigned it to religious or cultural activity, but in fact, it was an organized softball league.  The software estimated that it would be easy to swoop in, gather up a mix of male and female humans from the field and depart quickly.  Local interference from military or police was assigned a low probability.  

Pilot Bano monitored the autopilot as is slowed the spaceship for a landing at the edge of the park.  Over the ships intercom, he alerted the two crew members in back, “Standby for landing in two minutes. Be ready for exit and roundup.”

Arfan however, did not like the F-35 jets getting closer as the spaceship slowed.  The Jets were sending prodigious amounts for radar waves towards the spaceship, and Arfan didn’t like wave patterns that he saw.  That particular technology was primitive and obsolete on his home planet.  But sometimes it was frighteningly effective, like a poisonous blow-dart in the jungle.  

Arfan order the ship to keep it’s speed up, and not slow down. “Turn left 10 degrees,” he told the pilot as he switched on cameras and biology detectors which were mounted on bottom of the ship. The course change kept the ship somewhat north of the Los Angeles airspace which  was filled with numerous flying things.  The ship was on its way to the Mojave Desert, that great empty expanse between Los Angeles and Las Vegas.  

Chapter 3

The F-35’s had a problem.  They had been pumping huge amounts of fuel into the afterburners during the chase, to fly at maximum speed.  Now, their fuel was running low.  So they broke off the pursuit and circled back to land at a civilian airport since no military base was nearby.  In the past, the Southern California area was home to numerous Navy and Air Force bases.  But after budget cutbacks and changes in politics, that was no longer the case.  

The nearest Air Force interceptors that could be launched on short notice were based East of San Francisco, about 400 miles away.  Indeed, the pilots of those planes began running across the tarmac for what seemed like an urgent mission.

Interstate 15, the major highway between LA and Vegas, was carrying thousands of vehicles.  About 150 miles Northeast of LA, and half way between the Godforsaken towns of Barstow and Baker, a Lexus SUV cruised southwest bound.  Inside was the extended Farmer family, on their way back home from a weekend in Las Vegas.  There were Jill, the mother; Bob the father; 19 year-old daughter Laura; 13 year-old son Brad; and the daughter’s boyfriend, Evan.

Laura sat in the back seat of the SUV, between her boyfriend Evan on the left and brother Brad on the right.  Evan tilted his head back and half-closed his eyes, trying to sleep.  Brad looked out the window and was absorbed with desert scenery and road signs. On her phone, Laura flipped through Instagram, Snapchat and YouTube.  

On the Interstate highway, a few miles ahead, was a government-built rest stop for motorists.  With not much more than a parking lot, some picnic tables, and restrooms, this place had a steady stream of visitors.  Brad spotted the green sign which advised drivers of the rest stop ahead, and casually announced “Rest Stop in one mile”.  

“Daddy,” Laura implored, “I have to go.  Let’s make a stop.”  A minute later the Lexus SUV pulled into the parking area next to a motorcycle.  The Farmer extended family spilled out of the vehicle.

Laura says in a whiney uptalking voice to her boyfriend Evan, “Evan do I look fat? We ate sooo much at that buffet this morning I feel like I gained a hundred pounds.”

Evan shrugged and replied “You look good, Baby.” 

Walking away from his parked motorcycle, Rudy B. glanced to the West to see the last portion of dark blue sky giving way to the blackness of night.  Then he surveyed a row of vending machines, looking for one that dispensed coffee.  

Four miles above the rest stop, the alien space ship slowed and began descending.  Its sensors and cameras had picked up human forms walking around the rest stop.  The vehicles whizzing by were of also interest, but not the primary target.  Arfan liked what he saw.  A small group, easy to grab, nothing around for miles to provide interference.  With the weapons on board the space ship, the crew could easily turn the whole rest stop area into the proverbial smoking hole in the ground.  But that wasn’t the point.  The goal is to collect some specimens without injuring them, and without taking unnecessary risks.   

To Arfan, this was looking good.  They already had some nice specimens on board from an earlier raid on another planet.  And these humans would be a good addition to the zoo, because their basic design resembled Arfan’s species: two arms, two legs, and a head, but the humans were substantially taller. 

The Science officer was named Sura.  A female of the alien species, she was slightly smaller than Arfan, but nearly as strong.  As a military veteran, she was very experienced with look-to-shoot weapons.  On her home planet Sura was an expert at jungle and street-level combat.  She could look at a hostile fighter and electronics pack would (1) synchronize with her vision, (2) perform a friend-or-foe identity check of the target, (3) send a tight energy beam to disable or destroy the target, whichever was needed.  

For these intergalactic expeditions, her weapons pack included another weapon, the capture tool.  It was a chemical and mechanical projectile that resembled a combination of a fisherman’s net and a spider web.  Almost any organic life form up to three meters in size could be entrapped and subdued by this device.  

Chief Mate Kirp was equipped with the same look-to-shoot system.  He was less comfortable using the device than Sura.  However, with his technical knowledge, he could explain how the device worked, and what its limits were, and the history of its development.

Sura and Kirp stood suited up, at the starboard hatch (exit door). Each had the small weapons pack on their back.  Sura held device that looked like a ping-pong paddle with a luminescent target design. She looked directly at the center.  Then the weapons pack said “Alignment complete.”   

Kirp took the paddle and did the same.  Then he told her (in their language), “You know, I went to college with the son of the guy who invented this look-to-shoot.  That family is so rich now.”

Sura smiled and said, “It’s a good system. It saved my butt more than once.”

On the ground, Rudy, dressed in motorcycle leathers, sipped his black coffee as he scanned the parking lot for other bikes.  The Farmer family father, Dave, strolled out of the restrooms, adjusting his pants.  He walked up to Rudy and said, “That’s a really nice bike that you have.  Would you call that a full-dress Harley?”.

Rudy couldn’t reply.  He heard popping sound, like a champagne bottle, and then he fell, but didn’t hurt himself.  He was entangled in a sticky webby material that cushioned his fall.  His arms instinctively covered his head as he muttered “What the f...”.

In less than a minute, all the members of the Farmer family were captured, too.  Look-to-shoot was remarkably effective.  Bano maneuvered the ship over the scene and lowered a hoisting device.  The captured humans were quickly pulled aboard as some other humans in cars pulled into the parking area, and couldn’t believe what they were seeing.


Chapter 4

The group of humans were now back on board the space craft.  The webby material had an electrostatic component that gave it strength and adhesive quality.  Kirp went to each net, tapped a switch, and the material relaxed into a soft fibrous-like rope that could be easily pulled apart.  The large size of the humans compared to the small size of the aliens was a remarkable contrast. All of the aliens were about 4 feet tall, in human measurement.

All of the human captors extricated themselves and Jill, the mother helped her son to get out of the entanglement.  At which point he asked “Mom, where are we?  What is going on?”

They were all in a small room with padded walls.  The walls looked like they had been punched and scraped a lot.  Kirp then stood guard with a strange looking weapon which aimed menacingly at the six humans.  They huddled on the floor in a corner of the room, in stunned silence.

Sura entered the crowded small room with holding electronic device that was apparently not a weapon.  She knelt down to examine each of the humans, touching their clothing to ascertain that clothing was not part of their bodies.  She herself was covered in in fine short-haired fur from head to toes, with no discernable external organs.   

Sura look closely at the 13 year-old boy, Brad.  He looked back at her with a mix of alarm and curiosity.  She lifted Brad to see if he would stand-up, which he did.  As Kirp seemed to ready his weapon, Sura nudged Brad towards the door.  Brad looked back at his mother, who told him, “Just do what they want, Dear.”

In the biology lab, Sura strapped the boy into a reclining chair.  She fitted a frame-like device on his head.  The device then inserted thin metal probes into the boy’s head.  Brad was terrified.  He seemed to have little convulsions.  Sura then studied the display on her computer screen, watching the alien characters scrolling by.  

After the computer announced it was done downloading human brain contents, Sura pick up a transceiver which had a wire running back to the computer.  She held the transceiver to her forehead and closed her eyes. The computer made another announcement “Upload complete.”

Sura then removed the probes and unstrapped Brad.  He bolted from the chair and ran to escape, not able to open the door out.  He dropped to the floor, his back to the door and looked warily back at Sura.  She said, in a strange inflection in English, “How are you Brad?”.  Brad was stunned.

“I, I, guess I’m OK,” Brad stuttered, and continued, “Actually I’m thirsty.”  Sura nodded approvingly and fetched him an odd container with a tube attached, like a straw.  

The alien spacecraft was now one trillion miles from Earth, having slipped into trans-dimensional travel.  Pilot Bano input some adjustments into the flight controller to steer clear of known star systems.  This was the boring part of his job.  He really preferred manually steering the ship around, like he did over the automotive rest area.  He also liked firing the ships various weapons, but rarely had a chance to do so.  Getting shot at, on the other hand, was not fun at all.  

After Brad’s brain exam, Sura methodically did the same for all of the other humans, youngest to oldest.  


Chapter 5

Rudy is a veteran who served one tour of duty in Iraq with the Army.  His specialty was communications and intelligence.  On more than one occasion he shouldered a rifle in a tense firefight.  Eventually he came to believe that the Army’s rules of engagement (“ROE”) were the limiting factor in winning that war.  So he declined the opportunity to re-enlist and earn a higher rank.  He considered himself a retired warrior and a defender of all things good.

He figures that fighting his way out of this particular captivity was going to be a challenge.  First thing, gather information about the enemy, as the Army trained him.  So when Arfan invited him up to the spacecraft bridge, he accepted, and tried to show a minimal amount of eagerness.  

The bridge is a quaint English nautical term for the spacecraft’s flight control room.  Technically, it did have some small windows to see outside.  At this time, however, absolute blackness was all that was visible beyond the ship’s exterior.

Arfan was eager to talk to a warrior from another planet.  He knew about Rudy’s background from the brain uploads/downloads, and from transcriptions of human small talk.  All human talking in their confinement room was recorded and decoded by the ships computer.  

Chief Mate Kirp escorted Rudy from the confinement area.  They walked past another holding room and Rudy got a good look through the hatch.  Inside was a group of strange creatures.  They had wings like birds, large hands and feet, and seemed to be partially composed of metallic and electronic components.  Birds, Rudy thought.  Hybrid birds and machines.  Hybirds.  Very interesting.

Like Sura, Arfan had loaded the English language data into his memory.  Memory for him was a composite of organic cells combined with an miniature electronic quantum device. Like the hybrid birds, Arfan’s species evolved to enhance their own bodies with mechanical and electronic technologies.  

Arfan pointed to an empty crew chair and Rudy sat down.  Even though his height was only about 4 feet, Arfan had charisma and gravitas of a human. Pilot Bano sat nearby, studying 3-D images.  He flipped through schematics of the ship’s engines, galactic maps, and views of other rooms on the ship.  Arfan said to Rudy, “We saw you on a handsome two-wheeled vehicle.  Was it carrying weapons?”

Rudy took a long breath and thought about the fate of his bike.  Unknown to him, US Army Intel Officers had seized it during their investigation of the aliens’ raid.  Rudy replied, “I packed a Bowie knife, that’s about it.”

Arfan nodded in understanding, and continued. “During your fighting career, what weapons did you use?”

Rudy scratched his cheek.  This was an odd interrogation.  What was their point?  Do these aliens think that I am dangerous to them?  Where the hell are we going?  He then said, “Can I ask you questions too?”

Arfan sat up and said “Yes, of course, what do you want to know?”

Rudy then asked “Why did you take us prisoners?  Where are we going?”

Arfan settled into his captain’s chair.  “You are not at all prisoners.  You have committed no crime.  You humans are going to be an excellent exhibit in the zoo for our city.  You will like it there.  Many creatures of my species will enjoy watching your human activities.”

“When can we go back to Earth?,” Rudy continued.

“There is no plan for that,” Arfan said flatly. 

Rudy said “Well that sucks,” as he scanned the area for things he could use for an attack.

Arfan said coolly, “Don’t do something foolish. We have weapons here that you cannot imagine.”  The look-to-shoot system was always activated when captors were not in confinement.  Unfortunately, it was calibrated to stun or disable certain species, but that amount of energy could cause death to other species.  Bano kept one hand on a weapon as he glanced at the navigation instruments.  

Bano looked up from his console.  Arfan told him in their native language, “I do not want to hurt our best specimen. I want to walk down that ramp at the home port with nice little parade of strange creatures.  Taking them off this ship in cages or on stretchers up would be so much less photogenic.”

Bano nodded in agreement. Arfan turned to Rudy and said, “Mr. Rudy, I would like to hear about your warrior experiences.”

“Why is that?” Rudy asked.

Arfan explained, “When you become an exhibit at the zoo, you will be better regarded if your background is similar to something in our society which is well respected.  For example, I am formerly a warrior of high rank, and so I get a measure of respect and admiration back home.”

Rudy retorted, “And now you’re a poacher, a scavenger, running this motley mission? That doesn’t seem worthy of respect, to me.”

Arfan replied, “For lower-evolved species, you are clever, Mr. Rudy.”

Arfan leaned forward and continued, “Let me tell you about my background.  About two years ago - your Earth-years - I commanded a fleet of military ships that patrolled our section of the Galaxy.  The only enemy was a rebellious group from just one planet.  They had many more ships than we did.  But we had much better weapons.  The King of our species wanted my force to attack them and stop the rebellious activity.  I argued that an attack would be unwise at that time. But the King insisted.  So we started a battle.  We had trans-dimensional offensive weapons that were stronger than anything the rebels had.  However, unknown to us, the rebels had constructed a good defense against a trans-dimensional attack.  So, ultimately, we were beaten.  The King held me responsible for the loss.  I was relieved of command, demoted and dismissed from the military.”

Rudy was sympathetic, but held his feelings in check.  After all, Arfan was his captor.  Rudy commented, “I can imagine how you feel.”

Rudy rarely talked about his war experience.  Perhaps this was the time to open up.  Maybe he could get some empathy or consideration from Arfan.  So he explained, “I have had problems with the chain of command also.”

“One time, I was in convoy of fifteen vehicles.  We were driving through a little village.  We were ambushed and got hit pretty badly.  We escaped with some help from helicopter gunships coming in.  But we couldn’t totally fight back because most of the bad guys were mixed up with civilians.  Also some of the shooters were hiding in a religious building which we weren’t allowed to shoot.  It was really pathetic how our hands were tied by the rules of engagement.”  Arfan listened intently. The two of them talked for a long time.

Arfan explains how his drone had carefully surveyed the planet Earth before his arrival.  Rudy says that he was working in Las Vegas in casino security, and he was traveling to the Los Angeles area to visit his sister. Arfan is intrigued about what is a casino, and that humans would be so interested in random events from mechanical systems.


Chapter 6

In the spaceship, the humans are given a dense dough-like material for food.  It has a uniform tan color and a faint organic smell.  It seems to meet their minimum nutritional needs for now.

Bano, the pilot, checked the landing coordinates at the zoo plaza, a flat area adjacent to the zoo itself.  The landing is uneventful as the ship softly touches the pavement.  

Then, as Arfan wanted, the humans parade down a ramp from the ship.  Curious bystanders cheer and try to touch the humans.  They are intrigued that the two-arms two-legs form of the humans is similar to their own.  

Next, the hybirds are pushed out of the ships hatch.  They snarl and spit at the onlookers.  The hybirds are bound with multiple devices like handcuffs and manacles. 

Such an event would be newsworthy on Earth, and news cameras would be covering the whole scene.  On this planet however there was no news media covering.  The reason is that every individual’s vision and hearing is linked electronically to a central data server. This was facilitated by electronics embedded deep in their nervous system.  Thus any other individual could share the arrival experience in real time.  

Of course, individuals could occasionally turn-off the sensory upload, for privacy reasons.  But most individuals left it on continuously.  So the experiences of the small crowd around the ship’s ramp are shared by many others in the kingdom.  This creates a lot of interest in the new creatures and in the zoo generally.

Also what draws the interest of the aliens was the sexual dimorphism of the humans.  That is, the male and female bodies are visibly different, unlike their own species, where the males and females are outwardly identical.  

On Earth this is illustrated by various bird species.  For example, male and female crows appear to be identical.  Also green parrots all look the same.  So those birds are not sexually dimorphic.  However Mallard ducks are diomorphic.  The males are more colorful and attractive than the females which have dull plumage.  Also, peacocks and peahens are extremely different.

The six humans are ushered into a plain room with no furniture and no windows.  About ten aliens join them to do physical examinations, strip them of clothes, ask their for their names and backgrounds.  The English language knowledge which was extracted onboard the ship has been uploaded to the enhanced brains of these aliens.

They explain that their alien planet is named Apremisini.  Thereafter the humans call the aliens “Aprees”, who are not really aliens on their own planet; they are the locals.

Some of the Aprees wield instruments that seem to the humans to be vaguely medical or camera-like.  They move these instruments over and around the human bodies, taking scientific survey of their captors.

The naked humans are quite embarrassed and uncomfortable and try repeatedly to get their garments back.  Jill, the mother, confronts the Apree apparently in charge, saying “Look, we are getting chilled here. Do you want us to get sick?  Please just return out clothes.”

The boss Apree replies, “The visitors to our zoo want to see creatures in their natural condition.  That is our priority now.”

One of the Aprees named Zur is more sympathetic than the others, and he finally agrees to provide some towel-like wraps for warmth.  Daughter Laura wraps herself and says “Ughh, this is so gross, these rags aren’t even clean.”


Chapter 7

The zoo is an oval-shaped bowl arena.  It’s about a mile across.  It uses a natural depression in the ground instead of being a structure above ground. The terraces for exhibits form concentric rings, larger at the top and smaller at the bottom.  Looking at the zoo from above in the air, it resembles an open-pit ore mine on Earth.

The least interesting and least intelligent creatures are at the top.  The lower tiers feature the more exotic and dangerous creatures.  Humans are positioned at about the middle level.  Visitors can walk around each ring or ride a shuttle conveyance system.

After the medical inspections, the six humans are moved to their exhibit area. The floor is a hard cold ceramic material which is easy to clean.  The furniture consists of large chunks of a material like foam rubber.  The humans are given tool with a small hot blade that can cut the spongy foam.  

Rudy takes this tool and carves the foam chunks into chairs and beds.  Bob, the Dad, helps to hold the foam while Rudy saws.  “This sure isn’t my usual line of work.” Bob  sarcastically says.

“Mine neither,” replies Rudy,  “What do you do. On Earth I mean.”  

Bob says “For about twenty years I’ve been a bank auditor.  I work for a Federal agency.  How about you?”  Rudy nods.

“After I got out of the Army, I went to work for a Casino in Vegas in their security department.  Keeps me busy.”

Bob looks at their pathetic surroundings and continues “How do you figure we can get out of here, and get back home?”

Rudy shakes his head in mild disgust and says “That won’t be easy.”

Chapter 8

The food continues to be similar to what they saw on the spaceship.  However Zur brings samples of new things to eat every few days on her inspection visits.  Many of the samples have a strange taste and are rejected by the humans.  

The visitors to the zoo stroll pass the exhibit and are kept from touching the humans by a thick glass window that extends upwards about 12 feet.  The enclosure for the humans, however, is open to the sky.  Some badly behaving Aprees throw objects over the glass into the enclosure.  Pieces of their food are what is thrown the most often.  

Evan, the boyfriend of Laura, picks up one such morsel.  With a waving gesture, he encourages the youthful Aprees to throw some more.  Then he picks up a piece of food smells it and says “What is this stuff, anyway?”

Laura tells him, “It’s their food.  Some kind of snack.  Watch them. They eat a piece and then throw the rest at us.”

Even sniffs at the morsel and it seems to have an organic scent.  He nibbles a taste and nods and says, “Seems OK to me.  Tastes like chicken.”  He eats a few more bits.

Within minutes Evan fells a warmth over his face and ears and then then over his whole body.  He becomes feverish and sweaty while his heart is pounding.  He began saying repeatedly, “They poisoned me, those sons o’bitches poisoned me.”

Eventually those symptoms subside and then Evan gets very painful leg cramps and abdominal cramps.  That was the last time any human ate something other than food that was brought by zoo keepers.

None of the local Aprees know the English language like the zoo staff.  Sometimes they would taunt the humans in their native language and make wild gestures trying to get some attention.  The humans usually ignored these antics but sometimes Laura would yell at them “Oh shut up, just shut up!”.  At which point the provocative Apree individuals would embrace each other excitedly to congratulate their success at getting a reaction out of the humans.

The humans do not seem to do much except lie around, and this disappoints the Apree visitors.  However all human activity is recorded by numerous cameras.  The humans cannot see the cameras but the cameras see them quite clearly.  For the benefit of the Apree visitors, there are many small video screens along the rail in front of the 12-foot glass.  These displays show recorded typical human activities.  The humans are not aware of these video displays showing them eating, exercising, and everything else.  To the Aprees, this makes up for the lack of visible activity. Many Aprees have brain implants and don’t need the video screens because they can retrieve images electronically to their brain.  But some Aprees do not have implants and they like the videos.  

In the rear corner of their enclosure is a hole in the ground which serves as a toilet and receptacle for trash.  Uneaten food goes in their too.  Rudy fashions an enclosure out of the foam material to give them some privacy.  

Chapter 9

The Apremisini day is 32 hours long.  The humans’ circadian rhythm is set to 24 hours, so their sleep and wake times are constantly out of sync with the daylight and night. The humans are chronically sleepy or have insomnia. 

Laura and Evan sleep together on one of the large foam material beds.  This seems to have the parents approval, even though they are not married. In addition to sleeping, they frequently engage in sex play, intercourse and oral sex, while trying to stay quiet and out of view from the other humans.  Unknown to them, however, the zoo cameras capture everything.  These videos are displayed for the Apree visitors.  However, the sex videos are watched with about the same intensity as the eating videos, and the pooping, peeing videos.  What the Aprees really want to see, however, are births.

Births are a big deal at the zoo, which averages some kind of procreation event about every ten days.  For example, the DX creatures have a birth event.  The DX are kept at the lowest level and in the highest security enclosure, with heavy duty barriers and cages to contain them.  They resemble huge reptile gorillas with shark-like jaws and teeth.  They are noisy, quarrelsome and smelly, but the Aprees love to watch them.  

The birth event is remarkable because the normally angry creatures suddenly become calm and cooperative, huddling around the female giving birth.  The birth takes an hour and video is recorded from many angles.  The video is played back not only at the zoo, but in many other venues.  It is used in advertising for the zoo and for science education programs.  

Chapter 10

Zur arrives one morning with some more food for taste testing. Most of it seems highly manufactured and bland.  Then Zur asks about the humans’ health.  Everybody responds positively without any specific complaints.  Then Zur brings up the topic of births.  Addressing Laura and her mother, Zur suggests that they should get pregnant and give birth, so that their exhibit would be more popular and their situation would be secure.  

Rudy asks “What do you mean by ‘Secure’?”.  Zur explains that there were so many creatures and only a limited number of exhibit areas.  Preference is given to creatures that can make babies.  Creatures that do not have births were subject to removal.  That means another zoo or similar exhibit. 

“Would moving out of here be good or bad for us?” Rudy presses.

Zur says that this zoo was essentially the biggest and best on the planet.  Anywhere else would be different.  This is ambiguous answer makes Rudy feel puzzled and upset.

Zur continues, “Frankly, I feel that you should all be returned to your home planet.  Earth, as you call it.  But my job here is to insure the well-being of our captive animals.  If I was in charge, this zoo would not have any animals.  The exhibits would be limited to botanicals.  I believe that your condition here in captivity is cruel and disrespectful of life.  However the reality is that we are all here, now.”

Rudy and the other humans are stunned to hear this.

Jill, the mother, implores “Zur, help us get out of here.”

Zur responds, “If I do anything against the zoo management, I could be dismissed from this position or even killed, if they wanted.  Life is very cruel in this kingdom.”

Jill gasps and said, “Oh no.”  Zur leaves the enclosure, and the door slams behind him, followed by two loud clicks from the locking mechanism.

Brad chimes in, “We have to escape.”

Laura says with a sneer, “Yeah, right.”

Brad replies, “No really. I figured it out.”

Rudy adds, “Figured out what?”

“So that big door that all the Aprees come in through,” Brad explains, “It has two latches that automatically lock when the door closes behind them.  If we put something in there for each latch, the door will close, but it won’t be locked.”

Rudy continues, “OK, those two indents in the door frame.  What are you going to stuff in there?”

Brad points to the dining table and says, “You know that stupid food they give us.  It’s kind of rubbery.  When it gets wet it’s real sticky.  And you can mold it into shapes.”

Laura adds, “So you’ve been playing with your food, and now it’s going to help us get out of here.”

Rudy cuts her off, “Actually, that might work, but stuffing those indents is going to be difficult, without being noticed.”


Chapter 11

The hybirds are in an enclosure that can be seen by the humans.  After being taken from their home planet and transported to the zoo, they are not doing as well as the humans.  To keep them from flying away,  they are caged on all sides, which is different from the humans whose enclosure is open to the sky.  The bars of the cage grid are about 18 inches apart, which is narrow enough to contain their large bodies, and still allow the zoo spectators to see them clearly.  The humans can watch the hybird activities, like their noisy arguments over food.

Their health is compromised because of the extensive electronics within their bodies.  There is something needed to charge their batteries which the Apree zookeepers have not yet figured out.  It cannot be done with simple voltage from a wire.  A specific chemical is needed which the hybirds last received on their home planet. 

Despite their declining health, the hybirds are a popular exhibit.  The local Aprees are fascinated with highly intelligent creatures that can also fly through the air (on their home planet).  In the zoo enclosure, there is not enough room for the hybirds to flap their wings and get airborne. 

The Aprees’ raucous behavior includes wild gesturing to the hybirds, trying to get a response, and throwing food into the cage.  The mean-spirited hybirds sometimes throw the food pieces back to the Aprees while hissing or growling, which makes the Aprees even more excited.

As this all happens, a juvenile Apree climbs from the visitor gallery, through the cage grid bars, into the hybird enclosure, and then falls on the hard floor.  The youth is injured and immobile, but still alive.  The largest and most aggressive hybird motions to the others to stand back while it surveys the visitor to their cage.

This alpha hybird, with wings folded tightly on his back, walks slowly to the injured Apree.  The young Apree looks fearfully at the Hybird while the other Aprees in the visitor gallery start a pandemonium. The alpha reaches out with both arms and hands and helps the Apree to sit up.  The two creatures cannot communicate across their different languages.  

A team of zoo security officers arrives at the visitor gallery.  They do not speak the hybird language either, but begin shouting vocal instructions in their own language to the alpha hybird.  Their view is blocked by the hybird’s large body and they can’t see if he is helping or hurting the young Apree.  Wanting a quick end to this emergency, the senior security orders the junior officer to shoot the hybird.  The obedient junior officer sends a megavolt electron beam to the hybirds torso, which makes a large smoking hole in its body.  They hybird drops to the ground and the juvenile Apree stands up shakily.  

The humans watching this spectacle are stunned.  Laura gasps and says “Oh my God, what have they done?!”  Then guards dispersed the Apree visitors from the gallery.  

Some zookeepers, including Zur enter the hybird cage and go directly to the fallen alpha.  They are followed by Apree medics who look after the juvenile.  Blood, guts and melted electronic parts are splattered everywhere.  The alpha is motionless.  Zur is upset and shaken by the events.  However, this is his first view deep inside the body of a hybird, and he is both distraught and fascinated. 


Chapter 12

The humans are very perturbed over the violent death which they have witnessed.  “We have to get out of here,” Laura says resolutely. Rudy nods in agreement.

That night, they stack the foam furniture into a crude staircase, which would allow them to climb over the steep walls of the enclosure.  The hidden, cameras which record their every movement, sends images to a master security computer.  The computer sounds a general alarm, alerts guards, and turns on floodlights.  The humans are busted before they reach the top of the enclosure.

As punishment, the humans are denied food for three days.  

The zookeepers cleanup of the hybirds cage takes hours, and the humans sporadically watch, lamenting the death of a neighbor.  The zookeepers have a vehicle parked in the closed visitor gallery.  This vehicle is covered with a reflective substance like chrome, that made it mirror the scenery around it.  Finally the cleanup is done and the cleanup crew moves the shiny vehicle to the front of the human exhibit, for some reason.

The video screens which show recorded human activity to the visitors in the gallery cannot be seen by the humans, because they face away from their enclosure.  However this highly reflective vehicle is just past the flat screens, which loop shows continuously.  The humans, for the first time, can see these shows in reflections off the vehicle.  They are dumbstruck.

“Look,” says son Brad, “there’s videos of us eating and washing up.”

“Geez,” says Rudy, “We have been filmed without our permission.  The Aprees have been watching us, this whole time.”

“What do you expect,” says Bob sarcastically, the dad, “a show biz 
contract, and a talent fee, perhaps.”

“Noooo” screamed Laura, “There’s videos of Evan and me having sex.  Ohhh God!”

Rudy responds laconically, “You’re a porn star,” as the video shows her and Evan in various positions, including oral sex.

Laura shrieks “Seriously, We have to get out of here. I mean it.”

Bob replies, “Be careful what you wish for.  You just might get it.”

Brad says, “You know, I figured out how we can get out.”

Everybody pivots to Brad who says, “Yeah. Those locks on the door in the back.  Every time Zur or one of them comes in here, you can hear those two deadbolts click. It’s just a solenoid or something pushing the bolts into those holes in the door frame.”

“What are you saying, son,” asks Bob.

Brad continues, “Well, if we take some of that goofy food. You know how you can squish it into a spongy ball or any shape.  So just stuff that into those holes in the door frame, and the bolts won’t close all the way.”

“Very smart,” says Rudy, “Maybe also embed some metal into the squishy balls to the bolts will click.  So they should make the same sound as when they really close.”

“It could work,” says Bob, nodding in agreement.  “When that big guy comes in with them food tomorrow, I will distract him with some kind of problem. That will give you about a minute make that happen.”


Chapter 13

Brad does jam the locking mechanism and the group slips out of their enclosure after the Apree zookeepers have left.  Rudy leads the pack of six humans into the service area behind the zoo exhibits.  They walk quietly through a kind of warehouse with no Aprees in sight.  They continue through what looks like a laboratory, also empty of zookeepers.  They come to a heavy door that looks like an exit to the outside.  Wheeled vehicles are parked in this area that looks like a garage.  Rudy motions for the humans to crouch low behind one of the vehicles.  They wait, nearly motionless for fifteen minutes.  

The big door rolls open, a vehicle drives in and parks.  Apparently it’s a driverless vehicle because nobody gets out.  The humans all scamper out the door as it rolls closed.  They are outside.  They are dressed in the zoo rags sewn roughly into clothes. It is late in the day.

Laura exclaims to Brad, “This is awesome! Your plan worked!”

Rudy says emphatically, “Shut up, everybody. Follow me.”  He knows that any Apree who seems them lurking outside the zoo could alert authorities, and the game would end quickly, maybe violently.
