West Side Story Summary

1.  In 1950s New York City, two rival gangs, the Jets (white) and Sharks (Puerto Rican), struggle for control of the streets. At a dance, former Jet leader Tony meets and instantly falls in love with Maria, sister of the Shark leader Bernardo. They arrange to meet again.
2.  The next day, the two gangs nearly get into a fight until interrupting police arrive. After, Tony tells his friend Riff he wants to leave the Jets to be with Maria. Riff persuades Tony to come to a war council that night. Maria's friend Anita tells her about Tony but Bernardo disapproves.
3.  At the council, Tony suggests a fair fist fight between leaders rather than a gang war. But when Maria sends Tony a message to meet at the bridal shop, he leaves happily despite Riff's calls. The gangs meet at the dance and a brawl ensues until a gunshot kills Riff. In rage, Tony kills Bernardo, Maria's brother.
4.  Tony flees to Maria who was waiting at the bridal shop. They imagine getting married and living "Somewhere" away from violence. When Anita arrives, she angrily tells how Tony killed Bernardo but later softens and agrees to tell Maria that Tony is waiting at the drugstore.
5.  The Jets hunt Tony for killing their leader Riff. Anita is assaulted by the Jets at the drugstore before delivering Tony's message. In despair, Maria accepts Tony's death and threatens suicide. Just then, Tony arrives and they run to each other.
6.  Unaware Maria knows the truth, Tony envisions a bright future together. But Maria suddenly pulls a gun and threatens to shoot him for killing her brother. Unable to fire, she collapses in grief. Then Riff's lieutenant arrives and shoots Tony who dies in Maria's arms.
7.  Police and onlookers arrive, not understanding the tragedy. Maria shakes everyone out of their apathy, demanding to know how to make sense of the violence. Together with the gangs, she carries Tony's body away.
8.  In the aftermath, the gangs are moved to reconsider their ways. Maria rebukes the adults who stood by as the hate spread. Though heartbroken, she will carry Tony's vision and work for peace.
9.  The gang members begin to make amends, touched by Tony and Maria's love. In a haunting dream ballet, the cast acts out events leading to the tragedy. Maria's love reaches out to Tony across divides.
10.  As dawns breaks, shadows of Maria and dream-Tony find each other. Though their time was cut short, their love planted seeds of change. One day, their sacrifice may bring the peace they dreamed of "Somewhere."
